That I realize that we've got a couple of more things that we need to do before we're done rigging the
character.
Now in the original design for this character I had a hammer and a shield and I've already modeled and
textured those.
I just need to bring them in.
And then parent them to the rig.
So let's do that.
All right.
So first of all I've got a hammer here I'm going to go over to file and append and I want to append
a new object into the scene.
So when I click on this object you can see I get a list of possible things I could import I could import
material or I could import an object or a world or a scene or whatever but I'm going to import an object
here and when I click on object I can see the name of the object.
So I'm ominous like that.
And then I'm just going to come over here and click append from a library.
And that brings it into the scene and there it is.
It's huge.
I'm going to de-select it and select it again.
There it is.
So now I need to scale it down a bit and put it into place so I'll hit the key and scale it down so
you can see it's pretty big compared to the character.
I'm going to press the End key to bring up the properties panel and come over here.
And for the scale I've tested this out before in it and it seemed to me like a scale of about point
0 5 to 5 or something like that was pretty good.
Let's try that.
I'm going to also Press Control alt and Q and that will bring up the quad view so I can see this from
different angles.
Let me bring this down here like this and I'm going to try and just put it in his hand or turn it.
So it's in line with the hand.
Actually one thing I should do is I'm going to move the pivot point about where he's going to be holding
it.
I think it will be easier to move around if I do that.
So in a press control alt cue again to get out of that quad view and I'll move the cursor with shift
s to the selected object.
And then I'm going to come up here with the key to open up the properties panel and if I scroll down
I've got this 3D cursor X Y Z fields and I'm just going to click and drag on the Z and you can see I
can just move that cursor right up and down along the hammer.
So I think maybe it's going to hold it.
Right about here let's say.
Now I want to move the origin of the object to that 3D cursor and there we go.
Now when I go back to control alt cue and rotated a bit it'll rotate.
At that point now so here's the trick is to try and get it to be in his hand in a relatively believable
way.
Now that I've got it here I want to spin it around.
I want to rotate it so the angle of the hammer is kind of in line with the arm.
But if I tried to do that here in global mode that would throw it off.
I think so I'm gonna switch to local mode.
And now when I spin it I should be able to spin it right in line like that.
So I'm going to spin it.
So it's in line with his arm like that.
All right control cue.
And let's see if we can now adjust the fingers to wrap around the handle.
So I want to press the period key on the numpad and zoom in to the handle here or to the hammer.
And I'm going to choose a control object for the rig here and it's already in PPOs mode and that's good.
But what I want to do is come over here to this armature panel and turn on x ray just so I can see the
controls through the character.
I think I want maybe let's begin with this joint and I'm going to just move the thumb out a bit.
And then maybe I'll scale it in with this control like that see how that works and then let's work on
these fingers here.
Now if I took all of these controls like that all of them at the same time and then click and drag and
I could rotate those.
But it's kind of going through the handle I may have that a little bit too close and see what I can
do here I think I'll bring it down just a little bit.
All right I'll try that again so I can bring him in just a little bit here.
And then if I select all of these controls
and then scale these in the key and scale these in all right I think we've got the hammer pretty well
in place.
Let's go ahead and parent it to the rig.
Now how do we get this hammered to stay with the hand wherever it goes.
The way we can do that is to parent it to one of the bones.
And if we look at the vertex groups of the character here I just select the character.
Let me bring this up here.
You can see that the Virtex groups all begin with DPF and that's for the deformed bones.
Now all of the vertex groups were generated from the bones from the form bones when the rig was being
created.
So we've now we've got deformed bones in there we can't see them at this point in time.
They hit the Z key you can see they're hidden away.
So how do we find them.
Well let's come up here to the outliner an in the outliner.
I'm going to use the search tool and if I type in appear DPF and I'll do a dash.
We can see we've got a lot of bones here that begin with T.F..
What we're looking for is the form hand left and there it is right there.
So when I select that the armature panel comes up down here and you can see there's a little orange
dot here telling us that that's the layer that that bone is in.
And the reason why we can't see it is because that layer isn't selected.
So if I press shift and click that layer you can now see the form bones and that's the bone right there
that we want to parent this hammer to.
So let's select the hammer shift select that bone and then press control p.
And we want to set the parent to the bone so we click that.
Now if I select that hand I.K. control and if I move that around you can see that I will move the hammer
as well.
There we go.
All right.
I'm going to press shift and click this layer once again to hide those again.
Now we need to bring in our shield.
So let's work on that.
I'm going to do the same thing here by going to a file and append and this time instead of the hammer.
I want the shield so I click that go to object select the shield object and append and there it is.
And it once again is huge.
So now we got to go through the same process.
The problem is is while moving the shield here I need to think about what I want to do.
I'm not sure if I want to parent this shield to the forearm bone or if I want to parent it to the hand
bone.
I'm going to have issues either way and I'll show you what I mean.
But in the meantime I'm going to go ahead and move this into place.
I'm going to go back to the quad view with control alt cue and kind of move this into place.
We're going to need to scale it down some it's more like an umbrella than a shield here.
Let's see how this works.
I kind of want it to be a little bit smaller than the distance up to his arm or I kind of want it to
be.
I don't want to overlap that shoulder armor here.
I'll select these finger controls and scale these in to try and wrap the fingers around that strap there.
And also the thumb as well I think I can maybe let's try that.
Let's go ahead and scale that and see what happens.
And just not them.
All right so what I meant about trying to figure out what bone to parent it to is that no matter what
I do I think I'm going to be dealing with some counter keying or having to move the arm and then rotate
the shield or the hand or something to get it to work together.
In other words because I've made this the way I did with these two straps it's going to be a little
bit difficult to control.
Now had I created the rig from scratch I may have created the bone structure of the forearm and the
hand kind of is all one piece.
I wouldn't have to deal with this but let's give this a try.
I'm going to open this up and see if I can find the forearm.
Let me see if I just type in F here.
Our.
And we go there are the four arms.
So down here are the vertex groups I don't want those appear though.
This is what I want.
Now I'm going to select one of these on the right and that same layer lights up so all shift click that.
Now I can see the bones in here.
So there's the forearm one hears forearm two.
And down here is the hand.
So if I parroted to this forearm let's try this.
I'm a parent to this bone right here so I'll select that shield shift's select that bone press control
P and parent it to the bone.
Now if I select that I.K. handle and hit G and move around you can see the shield comes along with the
forearm.
But look at the hand.
So the hands a little off.
So now what I mean by counter keying if that's where I want the shield to be for this particular pose.
I then need to rotate the hand into place.
On the shield and that may be easier said than done.
See how it's the rotation of the forearm and the hand are connected through constraints I'm going to
undo that a ways till I get back to where I was and nominate and parent this to unparallel press alt
P and then clear parent choosing the shield and then clearing that parent.
Now one thing I ought to do and what I didn't do with the hammer let me press the end key for the properties
panel is to apply the the transformations.
Now I've got this where I want it to be I need this to be its zero location and you can see here that
it's got values in the location and the rotation and and the scale.
So I need to apply those.
So I'll press control a and apply the rotation and scale and then I'll press control a and apply the
location.
Here we go.
So I I'm going to need to go back and do that for the hammer as well I think probably be a good idea.
All right.
So I tried this bone let's try this bone up here.
This looks like it's the forearm one.
So let's try this one.
So I'll select the shield shift select that forearm one control P set the parent to the bone.
And now let's select the hand and move it around OK well that's all right.
If I wanted to move the hammer to that position now what let's see if I can get that hand in place if
I press R and rotate it.
A little bit like this.
It appears that I can get that hand into place pretty easily that the rotation of the forearm isn't
constrained at all to the hand or this particular forearm bone I should say.
All right.
Well that's one way to do it.
Another way to do it.
I'm going to undo here.
Another way to do it is to parent to the hand if I select that shield press alt P to clear the parent.
And now if I select the shield and shift select this bone or press control P set the parent to the bone.
And now if I select that I can handle and move it around and see it's now parenting to the hand but
the problem is you see look at the forearm strap there.
So once again I've got some counter keying to do to get it into place.
So it really depends on what I want to do here.
I think for me I'm going to want to go with this bone here.
I think I'm going to probably go with the forearm bone because it seems to me to be easier just to counter
key the hand than the whole shield.
Like this.
All right.
I'm going to shift select this layer here to hide those.
And now I think we're about ready to animate.
I'm going to come over here to the outliner real quick and delete that.
So I get the list of all my objects now in the outliner.
And so there's our character.
We're going to begin animating them.
I think the first thing we'll do is an idle.